We got to do.
From the closed guard, we're going to follow a similar pattern. One extra thing is we're going to want to control our opponent's posture. Okay? So it's kind of hard to climb my legs when he's all the way up here, so I'm going to have to find a way to get control of his head.
Ideally, we're going to work to take the arm across the body, as we pull our knees towards our chest, okay? And as we do that, we can grip on to the the back of the head. Okay? Now, when Ollie tries to lift up, he can't, and it's easier access for me to get to his shoulder. Right?
So, I'm going to pass the arm across. I'm going to use my right arm to help bring the arm across and also just to kind of have a little pull and a block when he tries to take it back out this side. It's a little more difficult, especially in combination with me pulling my knees to my chest and holding on to the back of his head. Okay? So now it's much harder for Ollie to get that arm back across. Right?
So, we grab the wrist to float the arm. Reach across, we pull our knees to our chest, and we grip the back of the head. Okay?
From here, I want to climb my legs up. Let's just walk a little this way.
To see how I climb my legs up. I'm going to go like right leg first, moving higher. Left foot on the hip, move my hips out to the side. And then I climb my legs again. Okay? And I'm looking to trap the shoulder.
Can you see? I can't trap the shoulder with both feet locking in one movement. That's no good. Okay? I actually I'm actually very loose here. Right?
So, I want to, usually, take my right leg first.
Step on the hip, move my hips out to the side, and then I can continue to climb. It might take a few goes, but I want to trap that shoulder.
So with the shoulder here trapped, I can then focus on getting a good angle to get my legs over. So right now, if I try to take my legs over, I don't have a good enough angle, he can posture and pull away. Okay?
That's actually just what we were talking about before, about when they can move their head and shoulders away, they can free their elbow. Okay?
So, I want to pull myself around by gripping, usually, still holding the head, but gripping onto the far armpit, pull myself around, and I chop very high on the shoulder. Now, can you see how when he tries to pull his head away? That's difficult here.
With my leg down low, he can posture up while while I'm not holding his head.
So I need to hold his head here, but once I turn, I can actually let go of his head with my arm and swing my other leg over.
And back heel as well. Now I have both feet stopping Ollie from pulling away. Okay?
This gives me a chance with my hips still behind the elbow to slide my hands down towards the wrist, and now I can lift my hips, extend and finish the straight arm lock.
So again, we control the wrist, grip onto the uh to the outside of the elbow here. I'm going to pull my knees towards my chest to break posture and reach to the head, trying to pull the elbow across the midline and control the posture here. My next aim is to climb my legs.
So I step on the hip, take my right leg up high, move my hips out to the side, and I can continue to climb as many times as I need until I can trap that shoulder or trap that shoulder free. So I'm trapping the head and the shoulder on this side.
From here, I still don't have my right leg across the body. So I want to get a good angle. I reach, usually collecting the head if I can, and grip onto the back of the shoulder here. So I control his posture, and this pulls me around as I can now chop over the top of the shoulders. Ollie can't posture up because of my back heel being close to the head.
I keep my legs tight, my left leg goes over the top, I back heel with both feet, so that now when he tries to pull his elbow free, I'm pulling him into that. Okay?
I can slide my hands down towards the wrist, hold that in place, and I can bring my hips in to finish.
```